assessment/README.md, before:

# Coursework Assessment Details

## Coursework Proforma

| | |
| --- | --- |
| Module number | SET08103 |
| Module title | Software Engineering Methods |
| Module leader | Kevin Chalmers |
| Tutor with responsibility for this Assessment. Student's first point of contact. | As above. |
| Assessment | Project |
| Weighting | 60% of module assessment |
| Size and/or time limits for assessment | See description below. |
| Deadline of submission | Your attention is drawn to the penalties for late submissions.  See details below. |
| Arrangements for submission | Coursework to be submitted via GitHub. |
| Assessment Regulations | All assessments are subject to the University Regulations |
| The requirements for the assessment | See below. |
| Special instructions | N/A |
| Return of work and feedback | Face-to-face via code reviews and via Moodle. |
| Assessment criteria | See below. |

## Coursework Specification

### Group Submission

### Individual Assessment

### Code Review Meeting

Each group will undertake **four** graded code reviews:

1. Week 3 (20% of CW mark).
2. Week 6 (20% of CW mark).
3. Week 9 (20% of CW mark).
4. Week 12 (20% of CW mark).

The meetings will take place during the lab sessions.  Each group will be given **10 minutes maximum** for the code review.  Your group will be **allocated a time for the code review**.  The details of the individual review points are below.  These meetings **must be attended** at the **stated time**.  Guidelines for grading the group:

- **Being late** for the meeting or **not being ready** when the meeting starts will result in the grade for that review being capped at 40%.
- **Not attending** the meeting will mean the code review will be marked at 0%.

**All team members** should attend the code review, however commitments and other considerations will be taken into account.  **Individuals attendance at reviews will be monitored** to ensure the team is contributing collectively to the project.

#### Code Review 1

##### SUBMISSION DEADLINE: Midnight Sunday of Week 3

##### Checklist Submission 1 (16% of CW mark)

- [ ] GitHub project for coursework set-up.
- [ ] MongoDB integrated into project.
- [ ] Project builds to self-contained JAR with Maven.
- [ ] Dockerfile for project set-up and works.
- [ ] Travis CI for project set-up and build is working using JAR, Docker, and MongoDB on Travis CI.
- [ ] Correct branches for GitFlow workflow created - includes `master`, `develop`, and `release` branches.
- [ ] Correct usage of branches.
- [ ] First release created on GitHub.

##### Graded Criteria Submission 1 (4% of CW mark)

- Metrics from GitHub.  Also used to assess individual contribution.
- Code quality including comments.

#### Code Review 2

##### SUBMISSION DEADLINE: Midnight Sunday of Week 6

##### Checklist Submission 2

- [ ] Issues being used.
- [ ] Kanban/Project Board being used.
- [ ] Use cases defined.
- [ ] Acceptance tests defined.

##### Graded Criteria Submission 2

- Metrics from GitHub.  Also used to assess individual contribution.
- Code quality including comments.
- Correct usage of branches.
- Continuous integration working.
- Project requirements met.

#### Code Review 3

##### SUBMISSION DEADLINE: Midnight Sunday of Week 9

##### Checklist Submission 3

- [ ] UML developed.
- [ ] Unit tests defined.
- [ ] TDD set-up.

##### Graded Criteria Submission 3

- Metrics from GitHub.  Also used to assess individual contribution.
- Code quality including comments.
- Correct usage of branches.
- Continuous integration working.
- Kanban/Project Board being used.
- Acceptance tests being met.
- Project requirements met.

#### Code Review 4

##### SUBMISSION DEADLINE: Midnight Sunday of Week 12

##### Checklist Submission 4

- [ ] Deployment working.
- [ ] Bug reporting system set-up.

##### Graded Criteria Submission 4

- Metrics from GitHub.  Also used to assess individual contribution.
- Code quality including comments.
- Correct usage of branches.
- Continuous integration working.
- Kanban/Project Board being used.
- Acceptance tests being met.
- Unit tests being met.
- Project requirements met.

### Final Submission

#### SUBMISSION DEADLINE: Midnight Sunday of Week 15

Commit message:

First pass of lecture 2 notes.

assessment/README.md, after:

# Coursework Assessment Details

## Coursework Proforma

| | |
| --- | --- |
| Module number | SET08103 |
| Module title | Software Engineering Methods |
| Module leader | Kevin Chalmers |
| Tutor with responsibility for this Assessment. Student's first point of contact. | As above. |
| Assessment | Project |
| Weighting | 60% of module assessment |
| Size and/or time limits for assessment | See description below. |
| Deadline of submission | Your attention is drawn to the penalties for late submissions.  See details below. |
| Arrangements for submission | Coursework to be submitted via GitHub. |
| Assessment Regulations | All assessments are subject to the University Regulations |
| The requirements for the assessment | See below. |
| Special instructions | N/A |
| Return of work and feedback | Face-to-face via code reviews and via Moodle. |
| Assessment criteria | See below. |

## Coursework Specification

You will work on the project as a Scrum team.  Details on Scrum are provided in [Lecture 2](../lectures/lecture02), including an FAQ on how to apply Scrum in the module.

### Group Submission

### Individual Assessment

### Code Review Meeting

Each group will undertake **four** graded code reviews:

1. Week 3 (20% of CW mark).
2. Week 6 (20% of CW mark).
3. Week 9 (20% of CW mark).
4. Week 12 (20% of CW mark).

The meetings will take place during the lab sessions.  Each group will be given **10 minutes maximum** for the code review.  Your group will be **allocated a time for the code review**.  The details of the individual review points are below.  These meetings **must be attended** at the **stated time**.  Guidelines for grading the group:

- **Being late** for the meeting or **not being ready** when the meeting starts will result in the grade for that review being capped at 40%.
- **Not attending** the meeting will mean the code review will be marked at 0%.

**All team members** should attend the code review, however commitments and other considerations will be taken into account.  **Individuals attendance at reviews will be monitored** to ensure the team is contributing collectively to the project.

#### Code Review 1

##### SUBMISSION DEADLINE: Midnight Sunday of Week 3

##### Checklist Submission 1 (16% of CW mark)

- [ ] GitHub project for coursework set-up.
- [ ] Product Backlog created.
- [ ] Project builds to self-contained JAR with Maven.
- [ ] Dockerfile for project set-up and works.
- [ ] Travis CI for project set-up and build is working using JAR, and Docker on Travis CI.
- [ ] Correct branches for GitFlow workflow created - includes `master`, `develop`, and `release` branches.
- [ ] Correct usage of branches.
- [ ] First release created on GitHub.

##### Graded Criteria Submission 1 (4% of CW mark)

- Metrics from GitHub.  Also used to assess individual contribution.
- Code quality including comments.

#### Code Review 2

##### SUBMISSION DEADLINE: Midnight Sunday of Week 6

##### Checklist Submission 2

- [ ] Issues being used.
- [ ] Kanban/Project Board being used.
- [ ] Use cases defined.
- [ ] Acceptance tests defined.

##### Graded Criteria Submission 2

- Metrics from GitHub.  Also used to assess individual contribution.
- Code quality including comments.
- Correct usage of branches.
- Continuous integration working.
- Project requirements met.

#### Code Review 3

##### SUBMISSION DEADLINE: Midnight Sunday of Week 9

##### Checklist Submission 3

- [ ] UML developed.
- [ ] Unit tests defined.
- [ ] TDD set-up.

##### Graded Criteria Submission 3

- Metrics from GitHub.  Also used to assess individual contribution.
- Code quality including comments.
- Correct usage of branches.
- Continuous integration working.
- Kanban/Project Board being used.
- Acceptance tests being met.
- Project requirements met.

#### Code Review 4

##### SUBMISSION DEADLINE: Midnight Sunday of Week 12

##### Checklist Submission 4

- [ ] Deployment working.
- [ ] Bug reporting system set-up.

##### Graded Criteria Submission 4

- Metrics from GitHub.  Also used to assess individual contribution.
- Code quality including comments.
- Correct usage of branches.
- Continuous integration working.
- Kanban/Project Board being used.
- Acceptance tests being met.
- Unit tests being met.
- Project requirements met.

### Final Submission

#### SUBMISSION DEADLINE: Midnight Sunday of Week 15
